Speaker 0    00:00:00    Our transport system, housing, uh, you name it, right? But when we move into the next bound of what we regard as forward Singapore's success, how do we build a new compact? How do we relate to one another? And how do we navigate this world that is increasingly complex rhythm with strife, focus on identity differences, accentuating, sometimes weaponizing differences that we have one another. I think that looking after our sense of unity, our culture, a sense of who we are and where we came from, I think is increasingly going to be important. And that's really MCC wise work. I wanted also to show you a picture of someone who's my long ago predecessor, the very first culture minister of Singapore. Do you know who it is? Roger Rajana? Anyone? Any other guesses?  
Speaker 0    00:00:53    But Rajana is right, and Mr. S Rajana was a journalist before, and he recently had a biography written on him by one of our ex mps Irene launched a couple of days ago by Prime Minister. But the one thing that stood out, I think for me, of you, because you nodding as well, is his phrase about building a democracy of deeds. He wrote about it, he spoke about it decades ago, but it remains highly relevant today, maybe even more relevant today than ever before. How do we relate to one another? And when he said democracy of deeds, what he meant was how do we ensure that when there are common problems in a society, that we all roll out our sleeves and pitch it and do something that lifts each other up? How do we function in a society and build up a society that measures ourselves, not by how many people succeed, but by where the last person is in that society and coming together to build a democracy of deeds means all of that.  
Speaker 0    00:01:55    Everyone coming forward, pitching up and making sure that we make the world a better place and believe society stronger for the next generation than it is for us. That I think, is the essence of democracy, of deeds. Question though is how do we achieve it? It's easy to define what it is much harder to say how we get there. So I thought I'll start with looking back a little bit. When we look at Singapore's history to what? Well, when we want to see how we want to move forward and look forward, I think it's important to also look back slightly and give you a sense of perspective that I think I see many young faces here. So probably most people here are born post independence like me. But I think we get a lot of sense of who we are and how we need to navigate the world today by looking back. So August, 1965, this was the headline on 10th of August, 1965, after a long to debate in out, in, out, do we stay, do we go? And so on. It was decided we are out. Actually, it was decided for us. And it was decided in a time in the sixties, which was really challenging from a number of perspectives. Social economic structures in Singapore was close to zero. We had none. Race relations, we had none. In fact, if anything, there were racial riots. Those of you who remember will remember this, the old days of  
Speaker 0    00:03:24    This,  
Speaker 0    00:03:26    The Hopley bus riots and the Maria Herta riots. This was all of course in the fifties, but it was something that was common. Fifties, sixties race relations was not what it is today. But in 1965, the dead leaders, <inaudible> and his team decided that Singapore will be a multicultural country. So just think back to 1965. Today is easy to understand. You look around the room today, you see multicultural, multi ethnicity, multi religion, religious tolerance, harmony, all of that are buzzwords. Something we grew up to understand, to accept, and oftentimes take for granted. But 1965 was much harder. It was a time when you could not relate to one another racially, ethnically. And so for a country to separate from a bigger country with a large Malay Muslim population, majority to the north and to the south, one of the biggest in the world, to then decide for a small, tiny population of that type 2.6, 2.7 million, we will be multicultural. We will not be a Singapore for Chinese, Indian or Malay alone. But for all was so challenging, was so difficult. But today, if you think back, it's would've been unfathomable for us not to have this culture. So the origins of who we are today, where we have come from, how far we will we have come from those days really started in 1965 or maybe a little bit before that. And we're lucky today because this has become the foundational pillars of our success.  
Speaker 0    00:05:01    I have less success moving this light. <laugh>  
Speaker 0    00:05:06    Fast forward 60 years from 96 to five, and the world today is maybe equally, if not more fractured in so many ways. I I don't need to tell you what the headlines are here. You can see every day in the newspapers, you will see reports, violence, people fighting over identity, whether it's ethnic, religious, racial, sometimes sexual orientation, sometimes gender. It's a lot more I and me and no, we not much in society. So the Singapore we have needs to be all the more special. And what, when we look at how we need to keep Singapore bright, sorry, yeah, this slide is maybe they give me the,  
Speaker 0    00:06:03    Yeah, okay. When we want to keep Singapore like this vibrant, colorful, and I always enjoy a picture of the Hawker Center because it tell me, well, first I love architecture of great food. But whenever you go to office center, it is really a microcosm of Singapore. Everyone side by side, sometimes chopping the dish table with tissue, very Singaporean, but you eat side by side, Indian food, ballet, Muslim, halal food, Chinese, all at one table. I dare say you wouldn't see this in almost any other part of the world. And these are things we sometimes take for granted. You know, ladies having a Zumba, neighborhoods like this, children growing up, not having an idea as to whether or not today I made a friend who was Indian, Malay or Chinese, but I made a good friend when I was growing up, you know, young, playful in school, I never came home to tell my mom, Hey, today I made a new friend who was Malay or Indian.  
Speaker 0    00:07:04    It never happened. In fact, in school, the only person you need to make friends with in school, in know class was the boy who brought the ball to school. Because if you're not friends with him, you don't get to play at recess. And that's a serious problem when you're a 7-year-old. But I think this is something that we should cherish. We need to nurture and cherish and grow. And when you look at what we have done over the years race, religious harmony is something we never take for granted. We never, ever take for granted. We work very hard at it at a number of different levels. At the national level, we have systems and structures in place. And we are fortunate because we benefited from much of this from the wisdom of people like <inaudible> coming up with systems such as, for example, PCMR, the Presidential Council, minority rights, you know, in Singapore, uniquely after we pass a bill in parliament three times, it is still not law until the PCMR looks at it and says, no minor race will be compromised as a result of this.  
Speaker 0    00:08:10    Even if you don't intend it. If a minority race will be unfairly affected because of a new piece of legislation, it will not pass. Our constitution in Singapore today requires the government of the day to look after a minority race and religion. It is a direct instruction to any government of the day to ensure that we make space and we uphold the minority religions and races. We look at this view here, bottom left corner of people living in the same neighborhood. It doesn't happen by chance. It happens because we have an ethnic integration policy. It doesn't happen by chance because you can go anywhere else in the world and you will see that estates enclaves are dominated by people of a particular ethnic mix. And after a while you'll see services, schools and problem places and so on, also similarly dominated by that. And it is not easy to shake that off.  
Speaker 0    00:09:10    So something in Singapore that makes it special. We, we, we always, wherever you live, you work, you play, you see people from different racial backgrounds coming forward. I should aim it over there. Is it, I should aim at you. I see <laugh> and our religious diversity and our unity, again, every so often, our, our IRO comes major events. They come together, say a prayer in their own way. We respect all the different prayers that they give as a, as a, as a site. If you just look at this as a, as a visual site, it is so powerful. It is so meaningful and so powerful. But again, it's not something that can happen by chance. It's because we sat down and we decided that we will create the space as much as possible. We always tell the world. In fact, we keep telling ourselves sometimes in cabinet, we are a secular government.  
Speaker 0    00:10:06    What does that mean? I'm, I'm, everyone knows, or most people know, my own religion is I'm a Catholic, but what does it mean when you are a secular? What does it mean when the minister in charge of culture and religion in Singapore is Catholic? What does that mean? Well, it means that I don't bring and bring to bear any of my own views as my own religion to the work that we do. In fact, as far as I can, I take part in almost every other religion's activities as far as I can. To the extent that I can respect it, I will. So if I'm invited to take part in nine emper gods, which is a very strong Singaporean towers procession and a very strong that has lots of following, I take part in it. Not that I believe in it, because that's my own, not my faith.  
Speaker 0    00:10:53    But as a sign of respect, I do so because if I don't and I stand by one side, what will happen after a while, people will say, well, you know, it's not so good to have a non Thomas minister in Singapore or non Buddhist minister in Singapore. And then we will then have divide or jostling based on religion. And that's not good. So we create as much space as possible. I always tell the IRO we are secular in Singapore as a government so that there's as much space as possible for the practice of religion in Singapore. And you can do anything you want to promote to talk about impulsive terms, your own religion. But we draw the red line when it comes to denigrating another religion, we never allow that because it's very emotive. And once that goes out of hand, it is very hard to pull it back. So religion, another important part of Singapore's pillars.  
Speaker 0    00:11:47    And so I've summarized it in this way. What does MCCY do? Really? I I say we look after the heart of Singapore, whether it's arts and culture, sports, youth, our national identity, community, charities, you know, all of that. So this week is future forward week. And, and one of the questions I asked myself as I was preparing to talk to all of you is how do I make what I'm gonna say relatable to you? Well, let me try, okay, let me try and I'm gonna tell you a little bit about deep dive into a few areas that we do at MCCY just for the next four or five minutes, okay? But before that, I wanted to show you where we are now,  
Speaker 0    00:12:32    Some slides on, well, surveys that I've, I've captured over the last couple of years. The one in the middle is the one that I think you see very often. Everyone cites it post pandemic, post covid. We are one of the few countries in the world that emerged more united post covid than before. It's actually highly unlikely in most places. People fight over covid safe management measures, vaccines, what our vaccines, who gets the vaccine and so on. We've been more united. We also remarkably religiously diverse. One of the most diverse regions in the world when it comes to religion. And also the most tolerant and bottom right hand corner. Singaporean is most likely to feel connected to many other religions. You might practice one religion. You have, you have your own faith, but you feel not disconnected. In fact, some people feel equally connected to other religions because they have friends from other religions.  
Speaker 0    00:13:28    You have colleagues, you have people who you meet with in the corridors of your housing estate. So you see all this comes together to make us this special country. It is not just one po, one portion, one policy, but a confluence of all of them. And at MCCY, of course, it's easy to say we must be ly tolerant and we must be harmonious. But what are the levers for that? What are, what are the tools that we have at our disposal to allow that to happen? I think at CCY we have, well, don't tell my colleagues, but I think the best ministry, because I forgot that I'm being recorded. So I might get into trouble <laugh>,  
Speaker 0    00:14:10    Because we look after aspects of Singapore that speaks to its heart. We look after things like, if I can get this to work sports, for example, we have now, we are now in the middle of the Olympics. We are following the Olympics. We, everyone remembers how eight years ago when Joseph schooling emerged first in his race. Even now when I talk about it, I still get goosebumps. Here was this boy unknown up against maybe the world's best, the world's most legend of names. Michael Phelps, Caleb Dresler, and, uh, she la Crow, right? And if you all remember the race, he won it. He broke the Olympic record. And these three boys who were the legends, all had silvers, three silvers, one goal, one Olympic record in one race by Singapore. Fantastic. What does it do for us? I think everyone remembers where they were on that day, August 12th, 2016. And I think thereafter, the sense of pride, the sense of how we relate to one another as fellow Singaporeans, I think indescribable. And we can't script this. We can't, you can't say this is what you will feel, but you can create it through opportunities like this. So we invest a lot in sport and we will continue to do so as much as we can.  
Speaker 0    00:15:41    Okay, this is a which of me sharing and para games. Was there a slide before this? Yeah, skip one. Skip one.  
Speaker 0    00:15:57    Okay. Since we're here, I'll just tell you a bit about this, but since you know, this is, this is the heart of where sports will take place. Just now, when I glance at the questions people ask me about concerts, Taylor Swift, sports Hub Stadium. So luckily I put this slide here, but I think this is something that we will continue to develop and nurture as a place for sports, for sporting talent to nurture, to grow and to be up against the best in the world. We are now, um, in the process of trying to bring as many of these major games into Singapore. Why? Because I think it's time for us to host many of these major games. So world swimming is coming next year we have the WTA coming, uh, smaller scale WT but the next three years, beginning January 25, we have a major W TT smash, which is a table tennis tournament in Singapore.  
Speaker 0    00:16:51    It rally Singaporeans around our players, it brings them together and it also allows Singaporean players, the Julius, to do well at a high level. How many of you know Isaac <inaudible> the table tennis player? Okay, a few of you. He played last night against the world number 13, he lost four, four sets to two, but he was mighty close. And his talent was hold all here. At 15 and a half years old, he played his first WTT smash. He, he, he, I watched him play, set the court, you know, once the big crowd was there, he was practically shivering. You can see his back. He was moving, he was, he was very nervous. One year later, he came back to the same venue, W TT smash 2023 February last year. And he was up against the commonwealth gold champion, gold, gold medalist winner. Two sets down best of five. He came back to win three, two, and then he went further on in the tournament and he never looked back. Later that year, he won three gold medals at the Sea games. And early this year he qualified for the Olympics, and now he's at the Olympics. And I think this boy at 18 years old today has a bright prospect. A lot of it's gotta do with the fact that we hosted the sports here and we allowed our athletes to, to compete at the highest levels.  
Speaker 0    00:18:10    Okay, let me move on. This is a slight advertisement <laugh> to make you make you interested in the Olympics. And please support our athletes every day. On my telegram chat on my social media, I put out the schedule for when you can watch the games on me. Watch. So if you don't know where to go, dunno where to watch. What time? Now you have no excuse. Just go to my social media channels, you'll find every day. Okay? Today there are two events. I think it's table tennis, sorry, it's, uh, badminton and rowing. I'm a good sports salesman. <laugh>, and then the arts, right? Just some highlights to entice you in, in the arts. I think this is a collage of the different aspects of arts in Singapore. I'll let it speak for itself. I'll make one comment. Our arts here in Singapore is, it is very unique.  
Speaker 0    00:19:05    Why? There are not many places in the world where you have confluence of so many different heritage and cultures and backgrounds coming together, sometimes separately, sometimes intermixing with one another and creating a really special uniquely Singaporean product. Today's goal, I I launched arts everywhere at CDC. Soon you'll see this wherever you live, all your CDCs will have arts everywhere. We bring the best of our artists into Singapore, uh, in Singapore, into your heartlands. And many of them is a blend of the local culture with something that is uniquely Singapore. I mean, intellectual culture With Singapore, you think a group like N Singapore very good in Malay drumming beats tunes, but they infused it with Singaporean context, how they do it as a Singaporean group. Very interesting. Go watch them if you can. Nari Singapore. Okay, I, I'm a bit like a sales fan, but you know, that's a, that's a job that I do. I promote the arts, the sports, and so on. And this is our night to life. We turn all our heritage buildings at night into something that's wonderful. It's a huge spectacle. Very popular every year. Am ending rolling.  
Speaker 0    00:20:25    And, um, I included this picture because this gives you a bit of a cross between my two ministries. I, I'm at MCCY, but I'm also the second minister and mid law. So this is a project that was just launched last week, a cross project between NEC National Council and the Singapore Land Authority. And we turn all buildings. This used to be a residential, this is a cap Java. We turned it up, we did it up nicely, and we turned it into an arts arts enclave. So we, uh, just launched a tender to allow a master tender come in, and this whole space will be turned into an arts enclave. Maybe someone just click the slide. So, okay. Um, thought leadership in interfaith, we run the ICCS every two years. Lots of people come around the world and the only question they ask us frequently is, how do you manage to do this?  
Speaker 0    00:21:19    How do you manage to bring people of different faiths together? And we bring them on a learning journey. Like students, we put 'em into a school bus, all these international leaders like this, and we bring them into our estates. No, no, I'm, I'm serious. It's not a joke. We bring them to the estates, like an excursion, and we show them how we live, where we pray, and how we function as a society. And when they drive past and they see a moss right next to a temple, they're completely flabbergasted. They cannot imagine this happening in their own places. Likewise, a temple and a moss, a church and so on, or even down the road. So it's again, something of course born out by the fact that we are small, we don't have much space. So we are forced in circumstances to bring all of these together. But the fact that it is more than just the closeness of the physical buildings is the closeness of the different religions that really struck a chord for them.  
Speaker 0    00:22:17    We have our harmony circles embedded in our society. Uh, we can move on to the next one. And I wanna talk now about what you can do. So, DBS has been a key partner for us in so many ways. At MCCY. At F-C-C-Y-I chair two very important committees. The first is the National Integration Council. We are focused on making sure that we don't let this local foreigner divide become a chasm that divides us. When you look at why I think the answer is obvious, it must be obvious, but let me just repeat it. Our population demographics is such that we're aging. Aging very quickly. Give you some numbers, right? You know, one in five today, uh, 60 and above. In 30 30, about six years from now, it becomes one in four. So it's not just aging, uh, an aging demographic, but aging very fast.  
Speaker 0    00:23:20    The incline is very sharp, sharper than most other countries. The impact on us is not just in healthcare costs, which will be heavy, but in our competitiveness, in our ability. We are vibrant economy to be right up there competing with the best businesses coming into Singapore. You want to keep up with the FDAs and investments into Singapore, which keeps our jobs running, our economy ticking. Then we have to have a vibrant workforce. So integrating locals and foreigners, making sure that they are part of our workforce, they're part of us, is a critical, critical issue. So I chair the NIC and I think in conjunction with that, your program, which is started about three or four years ago, the SIP version program, Singapore immersion program, is a wonderful compliment to what we're doing. And I think this is in a way, at a corporate level as well as for each of the individuals who play a part in this, your way of really contributing to Singapore, your way of growing Singapore, and being a part of that mission that is so important for us.  
Speaker 0    00:24:21    In Singapore, I also chair the National Steering Committee on Race and Religion. And what I do there is every three months I meet all the hits of all the apex religions in Singapore. And instead of having a formal meeting, which is can be very serious, we always start with a meal. Because, you know, in Singapore, the best way to talk is over food. And then suddenly all the prejudices are forgotten. The moment the tummy is good, and we do it, we rotate. You know, one day it is with the James, one day, it's with the Buddhist, one day is with the, um, mosques, the Muslims, and so on. And then we take part in making sure that we, we outdo each other, you know, in terms of which food is the best. But besides that, having the support of DBS in all of these areas, just take the top right hand side, which I haven't really spoken about, but key part of our mission is growing.  
Speaker 0    00:25:18    S gcas Singapore. Cast Singapore cast is really about building a vision of Singapore that is inclu inclusive. That makes sure that when we talk about inclusivity, it's not just in headlines and slogans, which are easy to do, it's about actions. It's about making sure that we walk the talk and then the deeds speak louder than the words. And so your role in dbs db S'S foundation's role in working with SG enable to build up support for the disability community by giving them training and giving them a job that allows them to find fulfillment. And also self-worth is so important. It's not about a handout, it's not about giving charity, it's not about just giving them some money or some financial resources. It's about giving dignity. And I think this is a big part of what it means to be inclusive in Singapore. It's not just a number that we say we add up.  
Speaker 0    00:26:17    You know, I sometimes dislike the fact that we want to be very nuMe numerical about how we measure our inclusivity. How many women on boards, for example, yes, you can have the number, but is it really, how many is it? We have programs for inclusion, yes, but what does it do for the person, the average person? We have sporting programs. We, we, we often say we have a great disability access for sporting facilities. You know, you can come, it's wheelchair friendly, barrier free and so on. But I always ask and challenge my team at FCCY. So what if you have a barrier, free access to the pool and to the gym? What is that person going to do when he gets there? Is there a program? Do we train, do we have a fun program together? Do we do learning together? I think we need to go to the next extra step. And so your work at DBS Foundation to partner with SG Enable has been instrumental for us in working together with us. And I hope that we can scale it up. Um, next slide.  
Speaker 0    00:27:28    And of course, the philanthropic part of it, as far as it affects sports has also been important. Some years ago, uh, some of you will remember that, you know, third board supports the Olympics and, um, the Paralympics not so much in terms of the amounts only, but really giving all full support. But there was some unease over the fact that there was a great disparity Team Olympics and Paralympics and PBS were fantastic, stepped in and said we will match. Top it up. It's not quite at the same level, partly because, you know, in Paralympics there's so many different classes. So for each gold medal for, for each gold medal at the Olympics, there's several of the same event at the Paralympics. So I can understand why it's not the same. But the gap was significantly closed by DBS, which was really appreciated. And I think now today, the Paralympic community sees this as a real game changer. Likewise, uh, your partnership with Pixeo, with, um, if you go down to the next slide, you'll see that you've also step forward to support our current Olympic Max made. He's gonna compete in, um, in Mae, actually in, in France in a couple of days time. And this boy is promising, as you know, he's been phenomenal. Our Asian goal medal winner, he's a double world champion and current European champion, 17 and a half years old. And by the way, his race, if he gets to the medal race of his event, will be on 9th of August, <laugh>.  
Speaker 0    00:29:03    So we'll look out for him, support him. But the point I wanted to end with was this, that the work that we do in government is really not different from the work that we can do as a community. It has to be together. You have future forward week, we have forward Singapore, not, not different. And the mission is to see it's about building a more inclusive Singapore, a special Singapore, like I said at the start, one where we can leave the next generation of Singaporeans a better Singapore than we have for ourselves. Just like we benefited from that, from the days of RA and his team, we must always pay it forward. If we don't pay it forward, we will lose that special quality that is Singapore. If we don't focus on the lease and the loss amongst us, we will not be able to uplift our society.  
Speaker 0    00:29:52    If we only look at how we do well, we will never be able to look after those who like to pay for one reason or another. So all of these programs help us to plug that gap so seamlessly, but we can do more. We can do more and we can, we should be doing more. But I think it means that there must be a collective partnership. We need to take the lead in government with programs, policies, leavers, sometimes grants and all that. But all the different efforts that we have with partners at DBS crucial. Early on, I had a privilege of speaking with a couple of your offices. Some of them are mentors in the SIP and they share their experiences with me. I think these are things that matter about, it's not just about creating a program, not just for making a donation, but getting everyone involved, every employee involved, putting in something because all of us have something to give.  
Speaker 0    00:30:43    And that's what Ana means when he says a democracy of peace. And if you can all do that collectively, then I can tell you that collectively Singapore, each of us coming together, we will make Singapore stronger than the sum of its parts. We will punch above our weight, continue to be the bright right red shining dot and continue to be the envy of other people. Not that we want to be for that reason, but because we must be different if we don't buck the trend that's happening elsewhere in the world. We are too small to let these things come into a Singapore to effect us. So we must continue to do so work together, and I hope that we continue to see this strong, inclusive, generous spirit that really defines Singapore. Thank you.  
Speaker 5    00:31:34    Thank Minister Don address. I would like Ka invite the Minister Don to remain on stage as <inaudible> join you. Um, for the fire side chat sessions,  
Speaker 3    00:31:43    Please post your questions on pigeonhole by scanning the  
Speaker 0    00:31:46    Q code on the  
Speaker 3    00:31:47    Screen now. Thank you. Well, thank you. Thank you minister for the sharing. In fact, a lot of the stories that you tell out of what you do at the ministry itself, um, ties in a lot with what we have, uh, for our own future for a week. We talk a lot about, you know, wellbeing. We talk about growth mindset and the story that you share about how as a country we evolve, um, how we build collaboration through race and religious harmony and even through SG enable and how we bring people with different abilities coming together. And then resiliency as a country, how do we build resilience as a country through the, uh, examples that you've given. And also finally this whole idea about learning. Um, and, and how do we learn even for the sportsman through the sports hub that you do, uh, that we build out there.  
Speaker 3    00:32:39    How do they learn to be great sportsman? We've got great examples of people who, uh, access seating in sports and it's a privilege for DBS to be involved with our Olympians starting, actually, Joseph, we did sponsor him. Um, and then we pinch you and then now with Max. So hopefully that track record of supporting them in the gold medal, um, would be something that, uh, we'll be very proud of. I, I am gonna take the opportunity to ask something more personally, um, before we get into the questions. And I think one of the things that, uh, start by, you know, the theme of collaboration. So you talked a lot about collaboration at the country level and what we do as programs, but as an individual, what advice can you give to our colleagues in the room? You know, they're all saying, how do you translate this whole idea of, um, bringing people together to collaborate more effectively at a personal level? Um, you know, what is your advice?  
Speaker 0    00:33:35    Well, I I would say at a personal level, never be afraid to do something different. Push yourself, push, push the envelope, and push yourself with an envelope beyond the boundaries. Uh, and today, when we look at how we build an inclusive society through SG Cares, i I give you one example we have at SG Cares over the last few years, signed, never before have we done so many MLUs, but we've signed an MOU with before, like the medical association, the Institute of Architects, the professional engineers, uh, even the, the lawyers who with law society. And we do that because we believe that rather than just to give in financial resources, it's best to give time of yourself. So we work with the architects, uh, with the smaller charities, uh, you might say, what are we doing with architects? Why does small charity need an architect?  
Speaker 0    00:34:34    But you'd be surprised because if they have a small premises, they wanna build a short extension, it needs to sign off from a professional person that can cost them tens of thousands of dollars. And a small charity doesn't have that. But to an architect is, you know, straightforward is what he or she does day in, day out. So that skillset coming forward, playing your role, doing something that you have an expertise in, but benefiting charities and society is, is, uh, to me the way to go. And as I said, you know, all of the efforts that you have spent, and I I have, uh, we studied the SIP very closely when, uh, when, when we, when we held our NIC meetings, uh, national Integration Council, and we were very impressed with a couple of the programs. You know, uh, you go down to things like, you know, an an employee with partner with a new employee from overseas and just now we are chatting and say, you know what you do.  
Speaker 0    00:35:30    And they say, we go for coffee. We teach them how to order coffee Singapore style. You know, you must. And and that's important because that is one way of fitting in and blending in. And so go out of what your, your normal spheres of influence. Go beyond what the people you normally socialize with and go beyond activities that you're used to doing on a day-to-day basis. And bring people on board with you. Not be afraid to work with others. Be bold enough to decide sometimes it's okay to try something which I might not like, or I might fail in doing, but push that envelope. That's perhaps the best advice I'd give.  
Speaker 3    00:36:10    Fantastic, fantastic. I think that that actually leads on to next question quite nicely when you talk about let's not be afraid to try, you know, um, and, uh, build some resiliency behind that. And the question here is really about, um, as we know, as you know, this week's future forward is about helping our people to learn how to, uh, build both career and personal resilience. Um, so what specific strategies or habits that you developed to build and, uh, maintain that resilience? Share with us an example that you had in your career where your resilience was tested, uh, and how you overcame it. It's a bit personal, but I thought your sharing has been fabulous and, and we would really learn a lot from this.  
Speaker 0    00:36:54    Well, so I, I graduated from law school in 94 and, uh, I was, uh, I, I did qualify in nine, five, and the first three or four years of my legal career, I'm not sure. I, you know, I think I forgot how my parents looked, like <laugh>, I was working a lot. It was hours were long, it was tough, it was challenging. And, um, and uh, actually three years into my career, I, I decided that I, I should take a break. I've could leave. 'cause it was just too intense. Uh, and then I spoke to my boss about it and he says, know what? Leave, are you crazy? Whatcha gonna do? So I said, not sure. Maybe you go and do a master's, uh, take some time off. But he says, look, you know, nothing that you want to achieve ever comes easy. You know, it's, there's a lot of work goes into it, especially when you're in the learning phase.  
Speaker 0    00:37:48    And it's, you got, you know, you, you've gotta start from ground zero. You've got to learn things the hard way. You've got to come up against people who you know will, will have you for lunch in court. A few times you get into, you know, the judges will be tough on you, you know, when you're really learning the ropes and finding your feet, it's gonna be tough. And, uh, but you need to persevere. There needs to be a resiliency about it. You need to overcome it, and you need to tell yourself that if you want to succeed at doing something, the first initial phases will never be easy in whatever you do. So even if left today, which he says you're welcome to do, that spook me a bit too. He says, wherever you end up, you will, it will be the same journey again.  
Speaker 0    00:38:34    Because if you wanna succeed in whatever you wanna do, that starting point from ground zero will have to be reenacted and you gotta start all working. So you must, well stay on, carry through and see through. So I thought about it, I decided to, well instead leaving to do my masters, I left on a holiday a week and a half was all people give me. And I thought about it and I said, I think there is a lot of meaning in really wanting to work hard at something. Because today, especially today, you know, attention spans are shorter. The desire from, you know, to, to get to fruition is much, the patience is much shorter and the path is supposed to be much shorter. But I think there's really no substitute for that experience. One of the es that you have that I think three E's, right?  
Speaker 0    00:39:25    Uh, exposure, experience and what's the last one? Education. And I think I was told that experience is the hardest, and I think it's true, experience is the hardest because it's a lived experience. It's what you need to go through. You can't read from it, you can't shortcut it. You've got to live it. And so I would say it, it answers to Quijas question. The one lesson that I picked up was, you know, there there's no free lunch and there's no shortcut even today. And much as we have progressed with technology and AI and so on, I, I think the path to building a career, the path to building success in the role that you play, whatever you do is gonna be peppered, especially the early years with a lot of hard work, a lot of tough experiences, a lot of failures. But if you overcome this, you'll be much stronger than if you didn't have it much more resilient, much wiser.  
Speaker 0    00:40:26    And you know, the whole sort of somewhat cliche saying, right, that failure is the start of success. I think it's really true. In my case, I didn't, didn't have a easy time in the early part of the career, but those found foundational steps were really crucial in my later years. And I look back at those experiences, I think I was much stronger, a lot more thick skin when I went to court, you know, getting questions from the judges, uh, faced with difficult opponents, all of that you need to build up over a period of time. And I think it is the same today. And, and, uh, one, one sort of advice for young, the younger generation is there really isn't a shortcut that you can, you know, apply by tapping on a button that gives you the AI solution you might have to answer. But sometimes in learning, especially in building career, the process is as important as getting the answer. Because the process is what builds you, strengthens you, gives you that fiber. And if you can, if you can find the answer without going through the process, you lose something. And it also then teaches you a slightly wrong lesson, which is then you can get a shortcut to something, which is not always true. So I think for those of you who resonate what I say and are going through it, bear with it because I think you'll make you much stronger at the end of the tunnel.  
Speaker 3    00:41:50    Well said, well said. I hope my, I wish my son was in the crowd <laugh>. Um, reason is because he is now one year after he is, uh, uh, starting in a law firm and he exactly has the same feeling that you had three years down the road.  
Speaker 0    00:42:02    So he don't, he doesn't recognize you now. Uh,  
Speaker 3    00:42:05    He does when we go on holiday, he just went one recently, but after that he doesn't <laugh>  
Speaker 3    00:42:10    And he does come back once in a once I think I want to quit. So I said, when I hear that, I'm gonna say, try talking to Minong if I can get his time. And he can tell you the experience he went through, and every single lawyer would probably tell you that at some point in time they just want to quit. Um, and then that's a wonderful story. Um, and it just reminds me of this saying that says, whatever that doesn't break you makes you stronger. And that's certainly something that you've gone through. Um, and, and so, you know, you have done actually miraculously from that three years later on to where you are, you went on to become a senior council and then you went on to do a different ministries. So you've actually done quite a lot of multiple career transitions. Um, again, same question around, you know, when you look at the different transition that you've done and clearly in the role that you played in the government, it's quite different from what you were trained to be as a lawyer when you went through as a litigator.  
Speaker 3    00:43:07    What, what were some of the strategies that you employed or some of the things that you did to help you transition, you know, from one role to another? What were the things that you, uh, do and what advice would you give for people when you're really moving from one to another? As you know, uh, part of what we have exposure is to do different jobs within the bank, right? And people do move quite a lot. Uh, we like to tell people that you can be a job hopper within the bank, but they don't hop outside, just stay within the bank, but do different jobs.  
Speaker 0    00:43:35    Well, the different roles I have to play, especially in government, is under the, you know, there was no choice  
Speaker 6    00:43:42    <laugh>.  
Speaker 0    00:43:45    So, you know, you know my, yeah, you look at it twice, right? So, so let's say you take, uh, 2020, right? So the GE was over and, uh, so Prime Minister is deciding on his new cabinet. So he calls us all one by one. So my dad, I walk into his room and he says, okay, this is what you're doing,  
Speaker 6    00:44:06    <laugh>. I find a  
Speaker 3    00:44:13    Lot of people in the bank says it's quite a common  
Speaker 6    00:44:15    Experience. Yeah.  
Speaker 0    00:44:19    So we're not very different. I told you <inaudible> are very different, all of you  
Speaker 6    00:44:22    Guys <laugh>.  
Speaker 0    00:44:25    So here, here, here I am. So I said, okay, you know, MCCY, you know, I, I did sort of know what FCCY does. So I was quite excited because, you know, I, those you know me well, who know that I, I am very much invested in sports. I feel that sports really gives you something that you can never, ever pick up anywhere else in classrooms, in any proper setting. The whole experience of doing something in sports just completely unique. Um, and I, and I, I also felt that, you know, the arts can play a bigger role in what it had been. So I was excited to be in this, um, law. My other role was something that was a constant, I've always been in the, the law ministry. Um, but then as I was getting up to reach for the door, she then says, oh, one more thing. And I paused for a while and I was word worried, I dunno whether this happens to DS <laugh>. And then he says, I also want you to hit the Chinese community liaison liaison group. And so I paused for a while because again, those of you who know me well will know that my Chinese is, you know, as good as say my Italian  
Speaker 6    00:45:31    <laugh>,  
Speaker 0    00:45:33    Which is non-existent. And, um, and, uh, I, I thought he made a mistake, but of course, you know, he doesn't make a mistake, right? So I pause in, I turn round, and for like five seconds I was processing in my mind whether I should fess up and say that, you know, I can't do Chinese community or should I just take it on board? And then I said, you know, like a good boy. I said, of course,  
Speaker 6    00:46:01    <laugh>.  
Speaker 0    00:46:13    Yeah. So, so going back to the earlier point about trying something different, I mean, this time round, of course I'm trying something different, but it was tried for me rather than myself volunteering. But in the end, you know, I I, I enjoyed the experience, you know, I was, it was for the initial period it was a bit fish outta water, and I think everybody raised an eyebrow. And so what's this fellow who is well known for not doing so well in Chinese, not doing in, in this. But, uh, I, I must say that it, you know, it allowed me to learn a lot more about the Chinese culture, the language, the meaning behind why we do certain things and to associate and to relate with a sector in society that I really would not have seen had not before this role. So the Chinese literary groups, I mean, I, I can barely speak Chinese, let alone, you know, read Chinese poetry or history and literature.  
Speaker 0    00:47:04    But I got in touch with them and I can see and appreciate very much what they did and why they did it. And, and, and also in the clans, the different, the different clan associations. And I feel Singapore is so much more enriched because of the different plants. Each of them, you know, come from a different part of southern China, whether it's ton or, or <inaudible> and so on. And, and now, you know, they bring that special culture to Singapore. So all of this was something that was completely new to me. So trying something different, uh, as I said, you know, somewhat false upon me, but I enjoyed the experience a lot. And so as I made this, these transitions, I mean, going back to RA's question, I think the key really is to have an open mind about, about where you're headed and what you're doing.  
Speaker 0    00:47:50    Um, you know, <inaudible> said, you know, try something different as long as it's within DBS. Okay, I think that's good. I, I think today one value that's really underrated is loyalty, both employer to employee and the other way around, employee to employer too. Because you want a good career. You want good, want a good career path, you want a good pay, you want a good system, you want to find fulfillment in your job. All that I think the employer has to give, but the employee also has to reciprocate. And I think there is, uh, of course, I spent 25 years in with one employer, and I never knew another law firm. I never, never knew another employer. And that was my experience. And I found that look, after a while, there isn't much to choose. If you are in a good place, don't handcuff for the last 5% or for something that might promise you, you know, easier. Like if you find fulfillment there, give to it. And I think that loyalty works both ways. So be open, be be uh, be prepared to do something completely different, which was my experience. And be open to suggestion as to how to move  
Speaker 0    00:49:01    Different trajectories in the same industry. There are so many different things that can be done. And I think in today's world, there isn't a fixed criteria for what a job path looks like. Maybe in my days and in my parents' generation, it was very clear. It was, you know, you had to do some something. My my mother, by the way, was a career teachers. She's from the time she came outta school till the time she retired, she was always a teacher. And, and in MO so it was very fixed and very one dimensional. Um, but I think today is very different. Within the same sector, within the same employer, you can find different high peaks of success, different aspirational plans.  
Speaker 3    00:49:38    Thank you, minister. I think a lot of the sharing you gave us, uh, so far kind of like matches to the current campaign that we have. We call trust Your Spark. And there are many things that you do, um, so far in, in your responses, Councilman inner belief, uh, in, in, in your values, in your own abilities and that openness to try. And I think that's something that we can learn a lot from. I'm gonna shift to something quite fun, because you've been quite known for bringing Taylor Swift. Um, and there is some question around that ask, not, not pop posted here, but there's actually appointed Derek, he's dying to know, um, how did you bring in Taylor Swift? So is there a story behind that? And, and it's a bit fun. And then there's a 31 Votes by Zach. Thank you Zach, for putting your name. In fact, I want to thank everybody who give their, their, uh, names on the pigeon hole. We've got names on Pigeon Hole is Not Anonymous. So Zach, thank you for the question, which ask Minister, what is your favorite Taylor Swift song and who's the next big act? So who are you selling to next? So tell us about how you bring Taylor Swift. What's your best song for Taylor Swift, your fan of it, and then, you know, this big act?  
Speaker 0    00:50:46    Well, Taylor Swift is obviously the number one performer in the world, right? But go back a couple of years when, when we decided to buy back the sports hub, we wanted the place to really be open to Singapore. That was the number one agenda. So today you have national school games there, all our kids play their school finals as far as we can accommodate at the sports hub. And I, I've gone to a few of these and you can see on their face, they can hardly believe it. Rugby finals for schools happens the day after the, the HSBC sevens, right? That it happens at, uh, sports Hub. So the Singapore service happens on Sunday, rugby finals on Monday. And when the boys walk onto the pitch, you can see they can barely believe it. You know, all the logos are still there. All the, the different markings on the pitch are still there, and 8,000 people fill the stadium, whether it is parents or teachers and friends and so on.  
Speaker 0    00:51:43    So that experience is really unmatchable. We celebrate racial harmony month just a couple of weeks ago at the Sports Hub. We have a whole range of different events. I, if I, this morning I was at a sports hub because my ministry at a sports day there, and I spent 20 minutes doing Zumba <laugh>, but it's now really a place for everyone. That was the main motivation. But along the way, we also realized that it's not possible to sustain it if we didn't have high quality acts. And when we look at Singapore's infrastructure, I felt we were ready for this, we were ready to host these events from a safety security perspective, transport was good for us and so on. So we looked around about two and a half years. We, we, we completed the transaction, I think in December, 2022, but we started thinking about whether we could bring in someone like Taylor Swift, maybe in early to mid 2022.  
Speaker 0    00:52:36    And at the time, if you remember, she had not yet announced her ERA tour. Her era tour is the biggest tour in history, had not yet announced it, we weren't sure that it would succeed, but the brand name of Killer Swift was very strong. So it, we set out some fillers asked around, and of course, you know, this is a, a major pop artist, so you don't make them come to Singapore for a meeting, right? You don't say, sit down and sit around a table and have some, you know, Jacob's crackers and coffee <laugh> discuss the concept, right? That's what we normally do in government,  
Speaker 3    00:53:11    Maybe some <inaudible> they see  
Speaker 0    00:53:15    Now we are a bit better, but you know, Jacob's cracker's still standard <laugh>. And so we said, okay, look, um, let's, let's go and visit them, right? Let's go there and go to LA and get, get, get a meeting going. And so that's what we did. We decided that it was, when we left Singapore, we knew that we were meeting them, but we did not know what her tour schedule would look like. We just knew that she had announced some dates in us. And so it was really a shot in the dump. And we said, let's go back and let's go there and see what we can do. We went there and we spent one day just listening to them and, you know, getting to know them. And then we realized that they were really thinking about what to do beyond the us. And so that's when we said, okay, look, come to Singapore, right? Make them an offer. Come to Singapore. Uh, yes, we did say don't go anywhere else,  
Speaker 7    00:54:08    <laugh>  
Speaker 0    00:54:11    In Southeast Asia. But that's because they, they were talking to us about multiple nights. They wanted to come to Singapore and set up for multiple nights. And I mean, look, it's not possible for us to stage it multiple nights if there were also multiple nights in many other cities. So for us to make it work, we had to make it only Singapore. Um, and so, yeah, I know some of our neighbors were not so happy, but, but the reality is we had to look at what would work for Singapore and how we can benefit Singapore. So we said, okay, come, you know, multiple nights and, um, and then not anywhere else in Southeast Asia. And so we then had tourists come in and that was very successful. We also said, can you make Singapore the last stop of a particular link? Uh, and she agreed.  
Speaker 0    00:55:00    And the reason we wanted that was because if you were successful in the first couple of, uh, days, shows, tickets wise, we can then extend. If you were salvage in between two bags, you don't have the ability to extend. So that's why you see her tour shadow. She goes from, I think it was, uh, uh, Europe, then Japan, Tokyo, I think she was in Tokyo, then she bypassed Singapore, she went to Melbourne and I think Sydney and then came back to Singapore. And then she announced, I think two nights or three nights first. And then when we saw that it was crazy, we then said, okay, look, we'll extend. So that's how we managed to get her into Singapore for two weeks. What a great story. So what's your favorite song?  
Speaker 7    00:55:45    <laugh>?  
Speaker 0    00:55:48    Actually, I must confess that I wasn't a big fan <laugh>, but, but it is a, but one of my daughters is a crazy fan. It's like she's mad <laugh>  
Speaker 0    00:56:02    And she made me listen to she say, look, you can't go and talk to Taylor Swift's team and you don't know the songs, so you be the embarrassment. So she made me listen to it in the car. She played it End Embassy in the car. And after a while, I must say it grew on me. So I am now quite a fan, you know, and, uh, and so actually I'm quite a big fan of the new album, the Tortured poet department. And, um, my favorite song from that album is, uh, well, it's changed a little bit, but today it is, um, so long London, um, I don't really know the song, but the popular one, I, I like all the popular ones. I know I love the 22 because of the hat. I, I love, uh, uh, cruel Summer. I mean, it was a fantastic opening those of you, how you went to the concept  
Speaker 8    00:56:50    <laugh>,  
Speaker 3    00:56:52    The  
Speaker 0    00:56:52    Restaurant really hard,  
Speaker 3    00:56:54    <laugh>.  
Speaker 0    00:56:56    So the next big act, right. Next big act. So what we are doing is, um, first we are going to be building a new indoor arena. We have decided that the current indoor arena doesn't quite work. So a couple of months ago in the budget I announced that we're gonna be building a new indoor arena. We're gonna make it bigger than the current one and purpose build it so that you know, it'll be easy to turn from sports to concerts and to lifestyle and to distant ice and so on easily. One of the current limitations is it takes us a long time in the current uh, indoor stadium configuration to move from sports to us to uh, concerts and to family entertainment. So it then allows us to maximize the number of days. So we are gonna be rebuilding one at the side of the current indoor stadium so that the current indoor stadium will run until the time is ready to cut over and then we will just stop the old one and move the over to the new one. Um, we will have capacity for big concerts like the 60 thousands at the stadiums and also about the 16, 18,000 at the indoor stadium. We have a number of good Asian acts coming. Andela is coming. Those of you interested from that generation. Jackie Chop spent 11 nights last, last, last year. Uh, and he's thinking of coming back again. Um, we have dual Lipa.  
Speaker 0    00:58:14    Uh, she's quite popular. I think she's Albanian if I'm not wrong, but she sings in English and she has a major act with ma, major duet with uh, Andrea Belli, which is very popular. So she's coming. Olivia Rodrigo was coming. Yeah, she was huge demand wise when we opened for ticket sales, the ticket sales were like 15 times the capacity that we had. So it shows you that there's a demand. It shows you that people in Singapore as well as maybe in the region are interested coming to Singapore and I think that that bodes well for us. So we will continue to do this. Uh, we'll continue to bring all this quality access Singapore so that we can enjoy it right here.  
Speaker 3    00:58:52    Thank you. Thank you. I've actually got a lot of other questions, but I'm mute. We will call it uh, a time here 'cause we've got a lot of booth outside for you to also visit. Yeah. Uh, and I know you have a hard stop at two 30, so thank you for, uh, sharing so much with us and we have run  
Speaker 4    00:59:09    Thank,  
Speaker 8    00:59:15    Thank you Mr. To and <inaudible> for that wonderful exchange. Please join me in putting our hands together again for Mr. Tom for taking time off this busy shuttle to join us. 
